---
title: Mixed-Order Meshes through rp-adaptivity for Surface Fitting to Implicit Geometries
categories:
- Paper
feature_image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/claireroche/claireroche.github.io/main/images/blossoms.png"
---

##### SIAM International Meshing Roundtable Workshop 2024 (SIAM IMR 2024), Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

**Authors:** Ketan Mittal, Veselin A. Dobrev, Patrick Knupp, Tzanio Kolev, Franck Ledoux, Claire Roche, Vladimir Z. Tomov

#####

<div style="text-align: justify">
Computational analysis with the finite element method requires geometrically accurate meshes. It is well known that high-order meshes can accurately capture curved surfaces with fewer degrees of freedom in comparison to low-order meshes. Existing techniques for high-order mesh generation typically output meshes with same polynomial order for all elements. However, high order elements away from curvilinear boundaries or interfaces increase the computational cost of the simulation without increasing geometric accuracy. In prior work, we have presented one such approach for generating body-fitted uniform-order meshes that takes a given mesh and morphs it to align with the surface of interest prescribed as the zero isocontour of a level-set function. We extend this method to generate mixed-order meshes such that curved surfaces of the domain are discretized with high-order elements, while low-order elements are used elsewhere. Numerical experiments demonstrate the robustness of the approach and show that it can be used to generate mixed-order meshes that are much more efficient than high uniform-order meshes. The proposed approach is purely algebraic, and extends to different types of elements (quadrilaterals/triangles/tetrahedron/hexahedra) in two- and three-dimensions.

</div>

<!-- more -->


_Paper available on [arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16369) or [SIAM IMR 2024](https://internationalmeshingroundtable.com/assets/papers/2024/1004.pdf)_ 